---
layout: post
title: Store
date: 2014/01/03
---

[Store](https://github.com/bredele/store) is a little project I released few days ago which is basically a wrapper for both data models and collections. I won't explain in this post what is Store and that's why I invite you to read its API [doc](https://github.com/bredele/store) for more information.

Instead, I will share three things I like about it.

## <a class="post-section" href="#collections">Collections</a>

Some frameworks introduce the concept of collection as an ordered sets of data models. I believe a collection is an `Array` and nothing more complicated. Here's an example with [Backbone](http://backbonejs.org/#Collection) collections:

{% highlight js %}
var Todo = Backbone.Model.extend({
  defaults: {
    title: '',
    completed: false
  }
});

var TodosCollection = Backbone.Collection.extend({
  model: Todo
});

var myTodo = new Todo({title:'Read the whole book', id: 2});

// pass array of models on collection instantiation
var todos = new TodosCollection([myTodo]);
{% endhighlight %}

and the same with **store**:

{% highlight js %}
//see the array??
var todos = new Store([{
  title: 'Read the whole book',
  completed: false
}]);
{% endhighlight %}


## <a class="post-section" href="#computedproperties">Computed properties</a>

A computed property is the result of the computation/transformation of one or serveral store properties. Here's an example of computed property with [Ember](http://emberjs.com/guides/object-model/computed-properties/):

{% highlight js %}
App.Person = Ember.Object.extend({
  // these will be supplied by `create`
  firstName: null,
  lastName: null,

  fullName: function() {
    return this.get('firstName') + ' ' + this.get('lastName');
  }.property('firstName', 'lastName')
});
{% endhighlight %}

and with store:

{% highlight js %}
store.compute('fullName', function() {
  return this.firstName + ' ' + this.lastName;
});
{% endhighlight %}

In the example above, `fullName` will change everytime `firstName` and/or `lastName` change.

Did you notice? **Store doesn't ask you to specify the properties you want to compute**. It's smart enough to parse the function you passed and get the properties to listen. 

## <a class="post-section" href="#itsextensible">It's extensible</a>

Store is focused around the data. It won't provide handlers to save and send data to a remote server like a model does. However, `store` can be extended as follows:

{% highlight js %}
//use middleware
store.use(function(scope) {
  scope.save = function() {
    //do something
  };
});
{% endhighlight %}

This feature is quite handy, you can imagine having **middlwares** to store your data into indexdb, be synchronized with a remote db, add validations and way more. As I'm writing, there is already a [couchdb version](https://github.com/flams/CouchDB-emily-tools) of store and someone doing an indexdb middleware.
