---
layout: post
title: Store
date: 2014/01/03
draft: true
---

[Store](https://github.com/bredele/store) is a little project I released few days ago which is basically a wrapper for both models and collections.

## <a class="post-section" href="#whygetcomplicated">Why get complicated?</a>



I started doing web developments about 3 years ago, back then [Backbone](http://backbonejs.org) was already popular and 

Those who know me know that I'm not a big fan of Backone. 

Ceux qui me connaissent savent que je ne suis pas un tres grand fan de Backbone. C'est une framework qui pour moi parle tres fort, qui est compliqué et qui ne fait pas grand chose. Cependant, Backbone a ete un pionnier dans son genre et a le merite d'exister depuis de nombreuses annees.

L'une des choses que je n'aime pas avec backbone et cette notion de [collection](). C'est pour moi  

Here's one thing I don't like about backbone...

do you like backbone? I would be intereseted

It provides many features such as formatters, access control, update events, computed properties, reset, local storage and way more. 

## <a class="post-section" href="#whygetcomplicated">Why get complicated?</a>

Data models are the spin of every modern pseudo-MVC frameworks. That's thanks to the model that you can be notified of a change, format or compute your data, do crazy magic live binding, save your data or send it to a remote server.

  > Do I need a model if the only thing I want is to store my data?

Like if a model wasn't enough complicated, there is collections. A collection is an ordered set of models...well, a list-array of models. It doesn't provide much more than an array does and I consider that is a huge overhead that makes your application just more complicated that it should be. Here's an example with [Backbone](http://backbonejs.org/#Collection) collections:

{% highlight js %}
var Todo = Backbone.Model.extend({
  defaults: {
    title: '',
    completed: false
  }
});

var TodosCollection = Backbone.Collection.extend({
  model: Todo
});

var myTodo = new Todo({title:'Read the whole book', id: 2});

// pass array of models on collection instantiation
var todos = new TodosCollection([myTodo]);
{% endhighlight %}

and the same with **store**:

{% highlight js %}
var todos = new Store([{
  title: 'Read the whole book',
  completed: false
}]);
{% endhighlight %}

I guess the example speak enough...all things concerned, a collection seems to do the same thing than a model : it **stores and notifies you when the data change**. So why couldn't we have a single object that manage everything for you?

## <a class="post-section" href="#letsdosimple">Let's do simple!</a>

Store is **focused around the data** and provide the same behaviour and API on top of an Object (model) or an Array (collection).

{% highlight js %}
var store = new Store({
  github: 'bredele'
});
store.get('github'); //bredele

store.reset([{
  name: 'Olivier Wietrich'
}
]);
store.get(0).name; //Olivier Wietrich
{% endhighlight %}

I invite you to read the API doc at this [link](https://github.com/bredele/store).

## <a class="post-section" href="#singleresponsability">A single responsability</a>

## <a class="post-section" href="#computation">A word about computation</a>